*********

Welcome to Project 64!

The goal of Project 64 is to preserve Commodore 64 related documents
in electronic text format that might otherwise cease to exist with the
rapid advancement of computer technology and declining interest in 8-
bit computers on the part of the general population.

Extensive efforts were made to preserve the contents of the original
document.  However, certain portions, such as diagrams, program
listings, and indexes may have been either altered or sacrificed due
to the limitations of plain vanilla text.  Diagrams may have been
eliminated where ASCII-art was not feasible.  Program listings may be
missing display codes where substitutions were not possible.  Tables
of contents and indexes may have been changed from page number
references to section number references. Please accept our apologies
for these limitations, alterations, and possible omissions.

Document names are limited to the 8.3 file convention of DOS. The
first characters of the file name are an abbreviation of the original
document name. The version number of the etext follows next. After
that a letter may appear to indicate the particular source of the
document. Finally, the document is given a .TXT extension.

The author(s) of the original document and members of Project 64 make
no representations about the accuracy or suitability of this material
for any purpose.  This etext is provided "as-is".  Please refer to the
warantee of the original document, if any, that may included in this
etext.  No other warantees, express or implied, are made to you as to
the etext or any medium it may be on.  Neither the author(s) nor the
members of Project 64 will assume liability for damages either from
the direct or indirect use of this etext or from the distribution of
or modification to this etext.

*********

The Project 64 etext of the Epyx Fast Load Cartridge Instruction
Manual. Provided by Chris McCormack <chrismc@eecs.umich.edu>,
formatted by the Basic Bombardier.

EPXFLC10.TXT, May 1996, etext #30

*********

EPYX (tm)

 ===FOR===
 COMMODORE
 ====64=== (tm)

Fast Load (tm) Cartridge Instruction Manual

Program Designed by Scott Nelson

-----------------------------------------------------------

 ---------------
 GETTING STARTED
 ---------------

1) Set up your Commodore 64 (tm) as shown in the Owner's Manual.

2) Make sure your computer is turned OFF.

3) Insert the FAST LOAD CARTRIDGE (tm) into the cartridge slot of your
computer.

4) Turn the computer ON.

5) Turn the disk drive ON.

6) Insert your program disk.

NOTE:  There is no need to remove the FAST LOAD CARTRIDGE once
inserted. FAST LOAD will work on most protected disks and in intended
for use with the Commodore 64 (tm) 1541 disk drive.


 ---------------
 USING FAST LOAD
 ---------------

LOADING

After turning the computer ON, the word "FASTLOAD" will appear just
below the Basic READY prompt.

* To list a directory without erasing the program in memory, type $ or
>$.

* To run most disk software, hold down the Commodore key (C=) and
press the RUN/STOP key.  This will eliminate typing LOAD "*",8,1 and
then typing RUN each time you load.

* To load a basic program, type /FILENAME.  This will eliminate typing
LOAD "FILENAME",8.

* To save a basic program, type _FILENAME.  This will eliminate typing
SAVE "FILENAME",8.  (showing _ for backarrow <- character)

* To load a machine language file, type %FILENAME.  This will
eliminate typing LOAD "FILENAME",8,1.

* To send a command to the disk drive, type @COMMAND or >COMMAND.
This will eliminate typing OPEN 15,8,15,"COMMAND":CLOSE 15.

* To read the error channel (when the red light on the disk drive is
flashing) type ">" or "@". (single characters > and @)


DISK TOOLS

To run the disk tool, type the British pound key (#).  Press the
appropriate letter for your desired function.

 A - DIRECTORY
 B - RETURN TO BASIC
 C - COPY
 D - DISABLE FASTLOAD
 E - EDIT DISKETTE
 F - FILE UTILITY

A - DIRECTORY:  This will show a directory of the diskette.

B - RETURN TO BASIC:  Will return to BASIC, leaving FASTLOAD intact.

C - COPY:  Selecting this option will give you another menu:

   A - DIRECTORY:  This will list the directory.

   B - RETURN TO THE FIRST MENU:  This will return you to the
       first menu.

   C - COPY ENTIRE DISKETTE:  Will copy every sector of one
       diskette to another diskette.  Note:  the new diskette
       must be formatted for this option to work properly.

   D - BAM COPY:  Will copy only those sectors on a diskette
       which have been allocated by the DOS.  This is much
       faster than copying the entire diskette.  Note:  The
       new diskette must be formatted for this option to work
       properly.

   E - COPY A FILE:  Will copy a program file from one
       diskette to another.  Wild card characters ("*" or
       "?") are allowed in the file name.

   F - FORMAT DISKETTE:  Will erase a diskette.  This option
       should be used before a BAM copy or an entire disk
       copy is attempted.  Note:  This will erase any files
       on the disk.


D - DISABLE FASTLOAD:  This will disable FAST LOAD and return you to
Basic.  Once this option has been selected, the only way to use FAST
LOAD is to turn the Commodore 64 Computer Off and ON again.

E - EDIT DISK:  Selecting this option will give you a new menu:

   EDIT DISKETTE        TRACK 12     SECTOR 02
   READ WRITE  QUIT

First, you must enter the track and sector you wish to edit in hex.
(If you prefer decimals, type a "#" before the number.) Then you will
see that sector displayed before you.  To change a byte, enter the new
value in hex.  To move within a sector, use the cursor keys.  To read
a sector, type "R".  To write a sector, type "W".  To quit, type "Q".


F - FILE UTILITY:  Selecting this option will give you a new menu:

   A - DIRECTORY:  This option will list the directory.

   B - RETURN TO THE FIRST MENU:  This will return you to
       the first menu.

   C - COPY A FILE:  This will copy a program file from one
       diskette to another.

   D - DELETE A FILE:  Will remove a file from the directory.

   E - LOCK A FILE:  Will "lock" a file, making it impossible
       to delete the file without first unlocking it.  A
       locked file will have a "<" after it in the directory.

   F - UNLOCK A FILE:  This will unlock a file, making it
       possible to delete it.

   G - RENAME A FILE:  Allows you to change the name of a file.


 --------------------
 ADVANCED PROGRAMMING
 --------------------

For advanced programmers, the following are assembly monitor
instructions:

SMON

In addition to the above tools, the FAST LOAD CARTRIDGE contains a
powerful monitor.  Since the major use of a monitor is to "debug"
assembly language programs, if you are not familiar with this, you may
want to skip this section.  To move into the monitor, type "!".

SYNTAX

A command in SMON is usually entered as several arguments followed by
a single command character.  The command character can usually be
placed anywhere on the line, therefore 800,850* is the same as 800*850
or *800 850.  Commas, periods, and spaces may be typed anywhere, and
serve only to separate numbers.  Numbers may be entered in hex (the
default), decimal (by preceeding it with a "#"), or as ASCII by typing
a single quote before it, or as a lot of ASCII by surrounding many
characters with double quotes.  Numbers may also be combined with any
of the five following operators: "&" (logical and), "!" (logical or),
"?" (logical exclusive or), "+" (plus), "-" (minus), "(" (left
parenthesis), and ")" (right parenthesis). For example:

 (11+4)&(5!1E?1)-#10 = A
         (15)&(1E)-A = A
                14-A = A

0000G:  Begins execution of M.L. code at location 0000 via JSR.

0000 1111H22 33 44 55 . . . :  This command hunts for a sequence of
bytes.  0000-1111 is the memory which will be searched.  22 33 sets
the range between which the first byte will be accepted, 44 55 the
second, and so on.  For example 0 1000 H A9 A9 80 90 will search for
an A9 followed by something between 80 and 90. Up to 10 bytes can be
searched for.

0000J:  Begins execution of M.L. code at location 0000 via JMP.

00 11 2222 3333I:  Will disassemble memory at 2222-3333 and print all
immediates between 00 and 11.

0000 1111L:  Will disassemble memory at 0000-1111 and print it to the
screen.

0000 1111 2222M:  Will move a block of memory at 1111-2222 down to
0000.  The move instruction always moves the lowest byte (1111) first,
so some moves may not work correctly.  For example: 4000 4001 8000M
will not move the block up one byte, instead 4000 will be moved to
4001, then from 4001 to 4002.  Thereby filling 4001-8001 with the byte
in 4000.

N:  No operation.

0000 1111 2222 3333 4444Q:  To relocate.  Takes the code at 3333-4444
and changes all absolute addresses in the range 1111-2222 by 0000
(subtracts 0000 from it).

0000 11 R"SSSSSSSS":  Binary load from device 11.  If 0000 is
specified, then this will load the file SSSSSSSS into memory at
location 0000. If not specified, then it will load where it was saved.
The R" MUST be located just before the filename.

0000S:  Executes one M.L. OP-CODE, then displays the contents of the
registers.  0000 is the address of the OP-CODE to execute, or just "S"
will continue with the next instruction.  For example: 600S will
execute the instruction at 600.  S will execute the one after 600.

0000T:  Begins execution at 0000 and displays registers after each
instruction.

0000 1111 2222 V:  Checks the block 1111-2222 against the memory
starting at 0000 if the location contents differ.  Then it will print
both contents.

0000 1111 22 W"SSSSSSSS":  Binary save.  Saves the memory 0000-1111
(inclusive) in the file SSSSSSSS an device 22.

00 11 2222 3333X Y @:  Disassembles block at 2222-3333 and prints
indirects between 00-11.  X will only print indirect X (,X). Y will
only print indirect Y (),Y.  @ will print all indirects.

0000 1111 2222 3333Z:  Disassembles block 2222-3333 and prints all
absolute or zero page references in the range 0000-1111.  These
include references from branches.

> . , :  These are separaters, and are ignored.

0000 1111*:  Displays memory from 0000 to 1111 in HEX and ASCII.

0000 1111^:  Prints the ASCII of memory from 0000-1111.

#AA XX YY PP SP:  Display registers.  If followed by numbers, then
those numbers are stored in those registers.  To change X, it is
necessary to change A as well.

%:  Returns you to Basic.

>"COMMAND":  Eliminates the Basic command, OPEN 15,8,15,"COMMAND"

$:  Prints a directory.

0000=:  Prints the HEX, DECIMAL, BINARY, and ASCII value of 0000.

===========================================================

New Epyx games that work with Fast Load Cartridge (tm)

 * Impossible Mission
 * Pitstop II
 * Summer Games
 * Breakdance
 * The World's Greatest Baseball Game
 * Robots of Dawn

===========================================================

Limited Warranty

Epyx, Inc., warrants to the original purchaser of this Epyx software
product that the medium on which this computer program is recorded is
free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of ninety
(90) days from the date of purchase.  This Epyx software program is
sold "as is", that is without express or implied warranty of any kind,
and Epyx is not liable for any losses or damages of any kind resulting
from use of this program.  Epyx agrees for a period of ninety (90)
days to either repair or replace, at its option, free of charge, any
Epyx software product, postage paid, with proof of purchase, at its
Factory Service Center.

This warranty is not applicable to normal wear and tear.  This
warranty shall not be applicable and shall be void if the defect in
the Epyx software product has arisen through abuse, unreasonable use,
mistreatment or neglect.  THIS WARRANTY IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER
EXPRESS WARRANTIES AND NO OTHER REPRESENTATION OR CLAIMS OF ANY NATURE
SHALL BE BINDING ON OR OBLIGATE EPYX.  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, ARE LIMITED TO THE NINETY (90) DAY PERIOD DESCRIBED ABOVE.
IN NO EVENT WILL EPYX BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE RESULTING FROM POSSESSION, USE OR MALFUNCTION OF
THIS EPYX SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

Some states do not allow limitations as to how long an implied
warranty lasts and/or the exclusion or limitation of incidental or
consequential damages so the above limitations and/or exclusions of
liability may not apply to you.  This warranty gives you specific
legal rights, and you may also have other rights which vary from state
to state.

 EPYX - COMPUTER SOFTWARE
 1043 Kiel Court, Sunnyvale, CA 94089

 Commodore 64 is a trademark of Commodore Business Machines, Inc.

(c) 1984 EPYX, INC.

===========================================================

 Proof of Purchase
 Part No. A1007R-60
 Product No. A107R

*********

End of the Project 64 etext of the Epyx Fast Load Cartridge
Instruction Manual.

********* 
